PR: Update and improve Find pane docs for Spyder 4 (#140)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/findinfiles.rst

:orphan:

####
Find
####

The **Find** pane allows you to search the content of files in a user-defined location, with advanced features to filter your results.

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find_in_files_inprogress.png
   :alt: Spyder Find in Files panel, with search results shown per-file

|

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

===================
Using the Find pane
===================

To search for text in the Find pane, write it in the top bar of the pane and press the search button.

> This will allow you to view and navigate through all the occurances of your search text in your working directory. You can expand or contract the search results to view the results on each file. Clicking on any of these matches, will automatically open the file showing where the text was found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will allow you to view and navigate through all the occurrences of your search text in your working directory. You can expand or contract the search results to view the results on each file.
Clicking on any of these matches, will automatically open the file showing where the text was found.
```

[GIF showing search and cliking file]

> If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel: 'Search in' menu. The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily. To erase all of these locations, select the "clear the list" option from the dropdown menu in the "Search in" field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel: 'Search in' menu. The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily.
To erase all of these locations, select the "clear the list" option from the dropdown menu in the "Search in" field.
```

[GIF showing chosing new directory and directory stored in the list]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

:orphan:

####
Find
####

The **Find** pane allows you to search the content of files in a user-defined location, with advanced features to filter your results.

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find_in_files_inprogress.png
   :alt: Spyder Find in Files panel, with search results shown per-file

|

===================
Using the Find pane
===================

To search for text in the Find pane, write it in the top bar of the pane and press the search button.

> This will allow you to view and navigate through all the occurrences of your search text in your working directory. You can expand or contract the search results to view the results on each file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will allow you to view and navigate through all the occurrences of your search text in your working directory.
You can expand or contract the search results to view the results on each file.
```

Clicking on any of these matches, will automatically open the file showing where the text was found.

[GIF showing search and cliking file]

> If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel: 'Search in' menu. The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel: 'Search in' menu.
The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily.
```

:orphan:

> 

Reviewer: Don't forget to remove this and add the page to the panes index :)

####

> The **Find** pane allows you to search the content of files in a user-defined location, with advanced features to filter your results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Find** pane allows you to search the content of plain text files in a user-defined location, with advanced features to filter your results.
```

Just to make clear that this doesn't look inside Word files or something similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Find** pane allows you to search the content of text files in a user-defined location, with advanced features to filter your results.
```

I would simplify this to just "text files", since to many users plain text could imply free-form text (`.txt`) rather than source code, CSV, and other more structured formats.

Author: Agreed with @ccordoba12 on making it clearer but with @CAM-Gerlach on making it simpler, I will apply the second one.

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find_in_files_inprogress.png
   :alt: Spyder Find in Files panel, with search results shown per-file

|

===================
Using the Find pane
===================

> To search for text in the Find pane, enter it in the combobox in the top left and press the search button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To search for text in the Find pane, enter it in the field in the top left and press the search button.
```

* I know that's technically a combobox, but people not familiar with the term would have a hard time trying to find it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To search for text in the Find pane, enter it in the field in the top left and press the search button.
```

I agree, its just that I'm pretty sure we used "combobox" in the Profiler and Pylint docs so I used it here for consistancy...

Author: I checked and we are not using combobox on any of those so I agree with @ccordoba12.

Reviewer 2: Glad to know you also agree.

To search for text in the Find pane, write it in the top bar of the pane and press the search button.
This will allow you to view and navigate through all the occurrences of your search text in your working directory.
You can expand or contract the search results to view the results on each file.

> Clicking on any of these matches, will automatically open the file showing where the text was found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on a match will automatically open the file and highlight the line where the text was found.
```

More concise, clearer description, less repetitive ("matches" -> "match"), stray comma

[GIF showing search and cliking file]

> If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel: 'Search in' menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel:`Search in` menu.
```

Fixed reST syntax

> The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily in the future.
```

Clarifying addition

> To erase all of these locations, select the "clear the list" option from the dropdown menu in the "Search in" field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To erase all of these saved directories, select the :guilabel:`Clear the list" option from the dropdown menu in the :guilabel:`Search in` field.
```

Avoided repetition and made it a little more precise; used reST directives where appropriate, used accurate capitalization as shown in the UI

> To erase all of these saved directories, select the :guilabel:`Clear the list" option from the dropdown menu in the :guilabel:`Search in` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To erase all of these saved directories, select the :guilabel:`Clear the list` option from the dropdown menu in the :guilabel:`Search in` field.
```

This fixes a simple rst syntax error.

Reviewer: Oops, missed that one sorry.

[GIF showing chosing new directory and directory stored in the list]

=======================
Choosing search options
=======================

> You can select from a number of options to enable searches as broad or refined as you need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select from a number of options to enable searches as broad or refined as you need.
```

Its no longer a bulleted list, so no need for the colon.

> To enable case sensitivity, controlling whether matches are returned with a different case than your search text, toggle the :guilabel:`Aa` button on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable case sensitivity, controlling whether results match exactly the search text you provided, toggle the :guilabel:`Aa` button on.
```

I think this is clearer. I mean, from the current description (and without seeing the gif) I couldn't figure out what this functionality is supposed to do (as a non-native speaker).

Reviewer 2: @CAM-Gerlach, I think you missed this one.

Reviewer: This does look just a bit unclear. However, the problem with this suggestion is that it now doesn't refer to case at all, it states whether "results match exactly" which refers to fuzzy search, not case sensitive, so I'm not sure how this is clearer and I don't know if there is another word in English could be used here to mean the same thing; we could explicitly say upper and lower case but that still involves the word "case". Ideas?

Author: Can you try to explain what makes it less clear @ccordoba12 ? I think there might be a simpler way of explaining it but your suggestion doesn't really says what the case sensitive does.

Reviewer 2: When I use case sensitive searches, I want to find exact matches for the text I introduced. For instance, I use them to find results just for `Foo`, instead of `foo` and `Foo`.

Reviewer: I see. The issue is that without using the word case, the phrasing above would be generally understood to refer to a fuzzy text search, not anything to do with case-sensitivity.

What about this?

```suggestion
To enable case sensitivity, which only returns matches in the same alphabet case (upper or lower) as your search text, toggle the :guilabel:`Aa` button on.
```

Reviewer 2: That's more complicated for me than the original version. What about using "different capitalization" instead of "case" (somehow)?

The thing is if we use the word "case" to describe what "case sensitive" means, then things are kind of circular.

Reviewer: Okay, I see. How about this?

```suggestion
To enable case sensitivity, which only returns matches with identical capitalization to your search text, toggle the :guilabel:`Aa` button on.
```

Author: I think the last suggestion sounds good. @ccordoba12 what do you think?

To enable case sensitivity, controlling whether matches are returned with a different case than your search text, toggle the :guilabel:`Aa` button on.

[GIF showing search with case sensitive activated]

> To parse your search string as a regular expression, toggle the :guilabel:`Gear` button on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To parse your search string as a regular expression, enable the :guilabel:`.*` button.
```

Updated button label for Spyder 4, avoided repetitive phrasing.

Reviewer: Maybe we should add a link here for users to learn more about regex...but where? Wikipedia? Regexr? Somewhere else?

Author: Yeah I think that is a good idea. Will do as a suggestion

> To parse your search string as a regular expression, enable the :guilabel:`.*` button.

Author: ```suggestion
To parse your search string as a `regular expression`_, enable the :guilabel:`.*` button.

.. _regular expression: https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html
```

Author: @CAM-Gerlach and @ccordoba12 what do you think?

[GIF showing regular expression search]

> To exclude certain filenames, types, or directories from your search, use the :guilabel:`Exclude:` text box, by displaying the advanced options clicking the :guilabel:`Plus:` icon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exclude certain filenames, extensions or directories from your search, click the :guilabel:`Plus` button to display the advanced options, and then enter them in the :guilabel:`Exclude` text box. 
```

Clarified my original text, fixed the grammar/syntax and put the steps to access it in order

> To exclude certain filenames, extensions or directories from your search, click the :guilabel:`Plus` button to display the advanced options, and then enter them in the :guilabel:`Exclude` text box. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To exclude certain filenames, extensions or directories from your search, click the :guilabel:`Plus` button to display the advanced options for this pane, and then enter them in the :guilabel:`Exclude` text box. 
```

Small clarification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exclude certain filenames, extensions or directories from your search, click the :guilabel:`Plus` button to display the advanced options for the pane, and then enter them in the :guilabel:`Exclude` text box. 
```

"The pane" fits a little better, I think...

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

Author: Agreed with @CAM-Gerlach. Applying the second one.

[GIF showing search excluding several file-types]

> Finally, to change the number of results displayed, select the 'Set maximum number of results' option under the Options menu on the pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, to change the number of matches displayed, select the :guilabel:`Set maximum number of results` option under the pane's Options menu in the top right.
```

Avoided repetition, used appropriate reST directives, fixed grammar, clarified instructions

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-inprogress.png
   :alt: Spyder Find in Files panel, with search results shown per-file

|

===================
Using the Find pane
===================

To search for text in the Find pane, enter it in the field in the top left and press the search button.
This will allow you to view and navigate through all the occurrences of your search text in your working directory.
You can expand or collapse the search results to view the matches in each file.
Clicking on a match will automatically open the file and highlight the line where the text was found.

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-search.gif
   :alt: Spyder Find pane showing search and going to a file

If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel:`Search in` menu.
The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily in the future.
To erase all of these saved directories, select the :guilabel:`Clear the list` option from the dropdown menu in the :guilabel:`Search in` field.

> .. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-directory.gif

Author: Adding search after changing directory

> .. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-directory.gif

Reviewer 2: Showing a new run with the same text shown at the beginning.

The **Find** pane allows you to search the content of text files in a user-defined location, with advanced features to filter your results.

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-inprogress.png
   :alt: Spyder Find in Files panel, with search results shown per-file

|

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Three blank lines before L2, not sure why this got removed

You can expand or collapse the search results to view the matches in each file.
Clicking on a match will automatically open the file and highlight the line where the text was found.

> .. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-search.gif

Reviewer: Pause at the end seems perhaps a second too long here?

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

Author: Ok. Cutting 1 second at the end

   :alt: Spyder Find pane showing search and going to a file

If you want to change the scope of your search, select another directory, project or file in the :guilabel:`Search in` menu.
The locations that you select for your search will be stored in the list so you can access them easily in the future.
To erase all of these saved directories, select the :guilabel:`Clear the list` option from the dropdown menu in the :guilabel:`Search in` field.

.. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-directory.gif
   :alt: Spyder Find pane showing chosing new directory and directory stored in the list

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

|

```

This one is missing the extra break after the image, before the section header, while the other one has it.

To enable case sensitivity, which only returns matches with identical capitalization to your search text, toggle the :guilabel:`Aa` button on.

> .. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-case.gif

Reviewer: I suggest you either make a cut during the search progress, or (better) speed it up by like 4x more. The GIF spends nearly 10 seconds sitting around waiting for the search to complete, most of that on an idle screen, by which point the user is likely to forget the exact original results and the intended purpose of the GIF (to show that there are fewer, different final results with case sensitivity enabled, not to show the search chugging along for 10 seconds). It also takes up almost 2 MB.

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

Author: I'll cut a part from the search

   :alt: Spyder Find pane showing search with case sensitive activated

To parse your search string as a `regular expression`_, enable the :guilabel:`.*` button.

.. _regular expression: https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html

> .. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-regex.gif

Reviewer: Again, around 5 seconds iis spent here with the search chugging, while only for a second at the end is it actually shown that both `editor = DataFrameEditor()` and `model = DataFrameModel()` were matched (the point of the regex). I recommend speeding up the search by 2x, and using ~1s of the 2+s freed to pause longer at the end to show this.

Author: Will do

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

   :alt: Spyder Find pane showing regular expression search

To exclude certain filenames, extensions or directories from your search, click the :guilabel:`Plus` button to display the advanced options for the pane, and then enter them in the :guilabel:`Exclude` text box. 

> .. image:: images/find_in_files/find-in-files-extensions.gif

Reviewer: Its not vital, but it would be nice if you drew attention to the .po files present before and absent after with your mouse

Author: Redoing it

Reviewer 2: I think this is still not clear enough. What do you think about selecting `spyder.po` so it's highlighted when the gif starts? I mean, to show something like this:

![Selección_022](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/365293/89061862-1655d600-d32b-11ea-8b89-0f3fb57deb5d.png)

Then it'd be clearer that file disappears after adding more the `*.po` exclusion pattern.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @juanis2112! It looks good to me now!
